# **Portals and Navigation**

The Microsoft Azure portal is a central place where you can provision and manage your Azure resources and workloads.

1. [Click here to open the Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com)

2. Maximize the browser window

3. In the **Email and phone** field, type xxxxx@xxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com

4. In the Password field, type XXXXXXX

5. Click **Sign in**

6. You will notice several tiles in the **Dashboard** page: All Resources, Service Health, Market Place, Subscriptions, Help + Support, Tour, What&#39;s new, Portal Settings, Feedback, and Azure classic portal. Just like your desktop icons, these tiles provide quick access to Azure resources and different parts of the portal. Perform the following steps to experience the tile functions:

7. In the left shortcut blade scroll down to the bottom and click on **more services&gt;**

8. In the more services blade scroll down to the storage section and click on **Storage Accounts**.

9. Click on the pin icon on top of the **Storage Accounts** blade, which will result in creating a tile on the Dashboard. Close the **Storage Accounts** blade and notice the new **Storage Accounts** tile appearing on the dashboard.

10. Click on the **Service**** health** You will notice a list of all the regions where Azure services are currently provided.

11. Click on the region where your Azure subscription is created which will open the **Activity Log** blade for your region. Select a timespan from the **Timespan** drop down menu to view the activities for that timespan. Close the **Service health** blade.

12. Click on the **Marketplace** tile, You will notice several products appear on the main page. You will also notice a menu providing different categories of products, which you can use to filter to a specific product category. Close the **Marketplace**

13. Click on the **Help + support** tile. You will notice a page with links to different support resources. You will also notice a menu providing you with quick access to different support resources as well. In that menu, click on the **New support request** You will be presented with a **New support request** blade which you can fill to request support from the Azure support team. Close the **Help + Support** blade.

14. Click on the **Portal Settings** You will notice the Portal settings page where you can make changes to the appearance of your Portal page and Language. Close the **Portal settings** page.

15. Click on the menu icon toward top left side of the page to open the menu. You will notice that the menu expands showing full name of each of the resource categories that you can create or manage in Azure. Click on any resource to experience the menu function.

16. On the top right corner of the portal, click on the **Bell** icon in the top menu bar of the portal to review the Alerts/notification {insert bell pic}

     >**Note:** You can review the status of any activity performed within the Azure portal.

